animals don't eat it it eats animals and
this one right here watch this is
Venus's flytrap it shapes its traps from
the ends of its leaves one or two hairs
on their surface act as triggers here
comes a meal touch the hair and the trap
is sprung there's now no escape the
beetle struggles stimulate the plant to
close the trap even more tightly it now
produces digestive acids from glands on
the inner surface of the leaf which
first kill and then dissolve its
victim's body growing in the same
Carolina swamp there's another
carnivorous plant these are the trumpet
pitchers they like the Venus flytrap
find so little nutriment in this
impoverished waterlogged soil that they
supplemented with the bodies of animals
their traps are also formed from leaves
but leaves that have been folded
lengthways to make a vertical tube which
fills with water
these spectacular trumpets may look like
flowers but of course they're not though
in a sense this bright yellow topped
them serves the same purpose as a petal
it's an advertisement of a delicious
reward and the reward itself is under
here sweet nectar but if an insect comes
to collect it and strays into the mouth
of a trumpet then it's doomed inside of
the throat of the trumpet is covered
with microscopic downward-pointing
spines
as long as it stays on the rim the amp'd
is alright but if it strays off it
it falls into a pond of water and drowns
the tiny corpse dissolves and the marsh
pitcher absorbs the resulting soup
and we're one amped goes others are
likely to follow
the marsh pitcher attracts other animals
too this frog may be hoping to eat some
of the insects before the pitcher does
but if it loses its footing the plant
will eat it